---
layout: archive
title: What's the purpose? Why this site?
permalink: /mypurpose/
---

I'm a data-driven person. I like results and scoreboards. I like being able to prove my successes, quantify my failures, and otherwise assess my performance. If, when I die, I see a list of summary statistics pop up with all the relevant metrics of my life laid out before me, I'll know that I'm in heaven. 

<h3 class="archive__subtitle">"Thomas"</h3>

I've long been interested in the stories of my family and their collective history, like I'm sure many are. In high school, I spent weeks compiling everything I could find online about my family tree, tracing them back through a site called FindAGrave. Where did they come from? How many were Civil War soldiers? Who lived where and did what? I recognize that I'm one of the lucky ones, one whose family has had clear lines of succession and fairly stable migration patterns.

The oldest person in my family around long enough for me to know was my great grandfather, Thomas "Cecil" Still, my father's father's father. I got my middle name from him. I remember sitting on Great Grandpa's lap in rural Illinois when I was maybe ten and asking him about the Great Depression (he was born in December 1919, so he would've been around my age when it began). *Oh, you know, we farmed in a rural area, so it didn't really hit us that bad. We mostly grew our own food and kept to ourselves,* he replied. Or something along those lines. I don't know if I ever got any more information than that. Most of what I know about him were the things I witnessed firsthand; I know he collected model cars, and he loved his train sets, and he was active into his nineties. I know that the twenty-odd tractors in the barn out back were fun to play on and pretend to drive, even if I did occassionally find spiders on them. I know that his wife, Lula, my great-grandmother, died in 1963 of cancer and he never remarried. My grandfather ("Papa") was freshly 19, his older brother Gary 21, his younger brother Stuart almost 4. I never asked questions about that, but the black-and-white pictures on the wall gave me clues.

My dad says when he was young, my great grandfather didn't show too much external affection. Not many men his age did those days, I figure. But he did with my sister and I. I can still hear his voice, the same greeting every time we called: *Well hullo, Jack!* I can still see him, ninety years old, hooking his pinkie finger into the loops of my little sister's jeans and somehow getting her completely off the ground. I can picture him congratulating us as we proudly displayed our haul of the vegetables from his garden. I knew who he was to me, and I loved him.

But I don't think I know anything about his youth, his early adulthood. I don't know where he grew up, although I know it was somewhere near Decatur, given all the Still family graves smattered throughout the surrounding small communities. I know he had siblings, but I don't anything about them. He died in June of 2015, the night before my last day of eighth grade. The times I could have asked him I let pass. But I was a kid; how would I have known? I'd never experienced a loss in the family, so I just figured that if he was 95 now, he'd be 105 ten years from now. But that's that.

In August of 2022, my then-girlfiend (now wife) Lyndsey and I drove all the way from Phoenix, Arizona back home to Carlisle, Pennsylvania, sightseeing and enjoying our first real vacation together. Since we were going through Illinois on the way, I wanted to stop in to his and my grandparents' hometown and share those memories with Lyndsey (I can be an overly sentimental person sometimes). In Mt. Zion, Illinois, we first went to my great-grandfather's favorite diner. Our waitress not only remembered him, but actually showed us a picture she'd taken with him on his 92nd birthday, over *ten years* prior. Go figure! The beauty of a small town. We then stopped at the cemetery so I could say hi and pay my respects and continued down the barren county road where my grandfather grew up, flanked by seemingly endless cornfields. Many people say those parts of the Midwest are dull and boring; I disagree. I've always found a calm beauty to the wide expanses of swaying crops. I'm sure the nostalgia helps. At any rate, I had some old pictures I'd brought from my grandfather's youth depicting him, his family, and the property, and I wanted to greet the new owners and ask if I could recreate a few.

As we pulled up to the house, it looked different. I hadn't been since the funeral seven years earlier. The new owners had redone the barn, made some additions to the house. A "No Trespassing" sign hung on the telephone pole. That wasn't like my great grandfather, who was known to set the extra veggies from his garden out for people passing by to take. It made me uncomfortable. I didn't like it. It messed with my mind to think that the place I knew from my youth was forever changed from how I'd stored it away in my memory. I didn't want to get out the car. Lynds and I drove away.

That trip made me realize just how fleeting our lived realities can be when stacked up against memory. When memories of us are gone, what then? Are we just names on a rock somewhere? Seventy, eighty, ninety years on earth, and then...? We might get our names on a building or a scholarship, and that's cool. We might have helped people and be remembered for the differences we made in other people's lives, and that's cooler. But much of the day-to-day in our lives is invariably forgotten, and I don't like that. I want to know the banal and the boring, because that's where so much of life occurs. What was your favorite food? Which teacher despised you, and what naughty thing did you do to cause it? What song did you listen to when you were feeling sad? What was your first car? It's what transforms a name into a person, turns "history" from something you read the highlights about in a book into an actual lived experience by people who had to grow up and make mistakes and learn.

Picture your grandparents at 10, crying on the playground because they just got a tooth knocked out by a soccer ball. Or at 17, sitting next to you in class and asking if they can sneek a peak at your notes, because they were zoning out again but gotta pass this class so they can get into college. Or at 25, asking the clerk at the PetSmart for help because they just found a puppy on the side of the road and they don't know the first thing about taking care of one. Those are the things I want to know about that I'll never find in an obituary or a history book. Everybody needs a memoir.


<h3 class="archive__subtitle">Changes</h3>

For Christmas in 2021, my parents bought all my grandparents this service that prompted them weekly to write down the stories of their lives -- who their childhood friends were, where they lived, what their first jobs were, memories from their youth on through adulthood and into their later lives. I thought it was a really sweet idea. My dad's parents were separated at this point but still both lived out in Phoenix, and we only saw them once or twice a year. My mom's parents were close -- in York, Pennsylvania -- and we saw them fairly regularly. But you know how it is when you're in college, and making time is a bit harder.

I think they also did it because both of my grandfathers had cancer. My dad's dad hadn't been dealing with it for very long, and we were pretty optimistic about it all. The pandemic had other ideas. He was in the hospital on Christmas, and we called him and his girlfriend Marla to give them some company.

*I've felt better. Occassionally they bump up my oxygen, sometimes they bring it back down. I'm doing okay.*

*That's a bummer, Papa. You'll be out in no time, though. Feel better!*

We didn't say Merry Christmas because it was a crappy way to spend a Christmas, and we figured they didn't want to think about how their day could've gone if not for Covid. The most physically active of all my grandparents, he practically worked a 9-5 out of his hangar in Chandler, Arizona, building and restoring experimental airplanes. The cancer sucked, but it only took him a few months of chemo to shake it and go into remission.

His immune system, ravaged by the chemo and now Covid, had other plans, though. The infection gradually got worse and worse, and after several more days of intense fighting, he passed the evening of January 2nd, 2022. He was 77. I don't think any of us were prepared for it. I'd never lost a grandparent, and the pain was much more raw than I'd felt before. I left that evening to drive back to Baltimore for school and cried most of the way, thinking about the things I wished I'd have told him or times I could've put my games down or stayed on the line longer to talk. The Christmas gift went unopened -- stories untold. 

Around that time, though, Dad found something amazing while going through my Papa's items. Although unfinished, Papa had just that fall penned a document containing as much of his early life as he could remember, complete with class pictures from elementary school, his first homes, and high school days showing cattle for the Macon County Fair. We think that his experience with cancer spurred him to get down the information while he was sure he could, but to us it felt like the universe had clued him into our plan for the grandparents just a little early. Through this pseudo-memoir, I felt like even after his passing, I was getting to know my grandfather better, and I treasured every bit of information.

[..**Grandpa's story**..]


I appreciate every small tidbit of information I can scrape out of my parents, grandparents, aunts and uncles. The lived experience of all those who came before us shapes in large part our own attitudes toward life. Be it positive or negative, my outlooks, motivations, and responses are largely dependent on how my parents raised me, and how they did so was due in part to their parents, and their parents before them, and so on. Learning the stories of my family and what made them who *they* were, at a deeply human level, helps me to track that process and in turn figure out who *I* am and why I am the way I am. 

It was because of this desire to be known, both by myself and others, that I felt that I didn't want my stories disappearing untold, either. I created this site as a way to keep a record of at least a part of myself that will hopefully live on, either past myself or past when I would remember these parts of myself.