---
layout: posts
title:  "Coin Hunting"
tagline: "It's Only Slightly Embarassing"
date:   2024-12-01 00:00:00 -0500
highlight_home: true
category: petprojects
tags: Coins
author_profile: true
author: Jack Still
permalink: /petprojects/coins/
header:
 teaser: "assets/images/north_of_sedona.jpg"
 overlay_image: "assets/images/north_of_sedona.jpg"
 # caption: "Photo credit: me"
 description: A picture I took north of Sedona, AZ in August 2022
---

<!--<h3 class="archive__subtitle">History</h3>-->
Since I was young, I've been fascinated with coins. It started when my dad got me a book to store state quarters (as I'm sure many of us Americans have had at some point), but it really took root when I was about 9 or 10 and my grandpa gave me his books of pennies dating back to 1909. Since there were still many spaces missing, he took me to a coin dealer in York to pick out about some new ones, and we spent way more than I think we should have on 10 cents... when we got home, he pulled out this big sock filled with what had to be at least $10-15 in purely pennies and we spent the whole day going through it together and filling up a new book we had bought at the dealer.

From there, I became obsessed; I *needed* to have every year, every denomination, every variety. A collector of all things by heart, this was the perfect hobby. I toted my collection everywhere, from Virginia to Pennsylvania to even Arizona (got stopped by TSA at the airport). The weight of the coins in my little red backpack didn't deter me, as I was bound to find them all in due time.

By the time I got to high school, my tastes were becoming a little more refined. For Christmas I asked parents and grandparents for things like a seated liberty half dollar, a silver three cent piece, a shield nickel (what can I say, 19th century US coinage is pretty neat). On a trip to Europe, I delighted in finding a store which sold random 18th century coins for under a euro apiece. 

That being said, it's always been more exciting to find those coins myself. What better way to do that than by sifting through boxes of coins sourced directly from the bank? For $25, I can get myself 2,500 pennies neatly rolled and packaged, and who knows what I'll find in there. A 100-year old wheat penny? An Indian head cent? Maybe the odd foreign that's snuck in here or there (all of which I've found, by the way).

As a statistics major in college, that love for coins nicely parallels with a love of data visualization, skills that I've certainly developed over the past few years. Now that I'm an adult with *free will (!)*, why not start going through boxes again with dual intent: to find cool coins *and* to map and compare distributions, summarize my findings, and just generally have a cool way of presenting what I've done? So here's just that! Enjoy!


<h3 class="archive__subtitle">Pennies</h3>
Power BI-generated PDF of my box searches: [Penny Box Searches](/coins/penny_box_searches) <br>
Want to mess with the filters? Download and try it out for yourself: 
<a href="/coins/Penny Box Searches.pbix" download>
    Penny Box Searches.pbix
</a>